Douglas Kent
Full-stack Software Engineer & Architect - LLM Systems, Blockchain
San Mateo, Alajuela, Costa Rica
https://www.douglaskent.com
https://www.linkedin.com/in/douglas-kent-760876a/
https://github.com/dkent600


PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY

I am a software engineer and architect with 35 years spent leading teams and
building sophisticated systems - web applications, blockchain and Web3
platforms, and most recently AI-native applications built on large language
models.

I have worn multiple hats in important roles across many kinds of
organizations, from Microsoft to garage startups - enough to recognize most
problems before they become expensive.

My recent work is in LLM system architecture and development - building
reliable systems on top of subjective inputs and non-deterministic models.


AREAS OF EXPERTISE

LLM Pipeline Architecture
AI System Evaluation and Testing
Human-in-the-Loop System Design
AI-Assisted Software Development
Blockchain and Web3 Architecture
Smart Contract and dApp Development
DAO Governance Systems
DeFi and ReFi
Distributed and Offshore Team Leadership
Enterprise-Scale Web Applications
Service-Oriented Architecture
Full-Stack Web Application Development
Software Architecture
Technical Leadership


SELECTED ACCOMPLISHMENTS

- Working with subjective human voices and non-deterministic AI
  interpretations, I led the design and development of Human Lens, an
  AI-native qualitative analysis application that produces findings solid
  enough for a DEI consultancy to advise its clients with confidence.
- With Curve Labs, I coded, delivered and led, in some cases single-handedly,
  the front-end development of multiple complex Web3 dApps leveraging Ethereum
  smart contracts in the domains of decentralized finance (DeFi) and
  regeneration (ReFi).
- With DAOstack, I helped design and develop some of the first-ever
  decentralized autonomous organization (DAO) Ethereum smart contracts, and
  helped develop a complex Web3 dApp to use them.
- In an enterprise website environment at Revionics, I saved a project in
  jeopardy of missing its deadline. I took the counter-intuitive and risky
  step of dropping the assisting team from 7 to 3, but it enabled us to meet
  our deadline.
- At Microsoft, I led a multi-disciplinary development team of 7 software
  engineers plus writers and graphic designers to produce a multimedia CD-ROM
  title for Windows. We delivered on time, meeting all quality goals.
- On a Microsoft project whose development lead and content developer each
  unexpectedly and simultaneously departed, I took the initiative to undertake
  some of each person's responsibilities, keeping the project on schedule and
  leading it to a successful market release.
- In an enterprise website environment at ShiftWise, while facing an urgent
  deadline, I single-handedly implemented a complete system for handling
  mission-critical SMS messages. The architecture spanned a web site, three
  web services, two Windows services, and two SQL Server databases.
- For Ford Motor Company (via Trilogy) I designed, wrote, and delivered ahead
  of schedule a framework that served content to every page of the company's
  flagship website, Ford.com.
- At ConnectSoft I led the development of an application that won a Windows
  100 award from Windows Magazine: Clip-Art Window Shopper, one of the first
  ever applications for purchasing and downloading clip-art online.
- At Microsoft, I incorporated the new technology of OLE 1.0 into Windows
  Write. OLE was a highly visible and strategic initiative of interest at the
  highest levels in Microsoft.
- In my very first job as a software engineer, at the University of N.
  Carolina, I wrote a multi-dimensional data visualization application that
  was adopted as a product by the SAS Institute, a major statistical software
  company.


TESTIMONIALS

"Doug is a brilliant front-end engineer who stands out for his exceptional
professionalism, team-player attitude, and a strong sense of ownership. He
goes out of his way to ensure that projects are delivered on time and to the
highest possible standard. Doug is great at leading other developers and
working across disciplines, he's an expert in prioritization and can dissect
complex problems. His perfectionism and ability to set a great example for the
team have been invaluable. I had the chance to work with Doug on multiple Web3
projects throughout the years and I would always look forward to an
opportunity to work with him."

Renc Korzay, Web3 Product Manager (Curve Labs)
https://www.linkedin.com/in/renckorzay/


"It's rare that you come across standout talent like Doug. I hired Doug as an
application developer in my analytics team at PSP. He was able to complete the
development of complex data products with complex custom visualizations on
time. I was particularly impressed by Doug's ability to precisely understand
business requirements effortlessly due to his extensive experience as well as
being an amazing team player."

Ghalem Ben Nouna, Senior Director of Data Management and Business Intelligence
at Ivanhoe Cambridge (PSP Investments)
https://www.linkedin.com/in/ghalem-ben-nouna-2356011/


"I know Doug Kent both personally and professionally. I have had the great
pleasure of working with him on several projects at multiple companies. These
include industry changing applications like ShiftWise (healthcare staffing
vendor management systems) and at large companies like GE . He is a highly
reliable and methodical .NET web developer, and the best OO developer I've
worked with. Doug works well solo and on teams and is an excellent
communicator in both settings. On that point, he is an open and honest person
and one who is not afraid to speak up (appropriately) when necessary. He is my
go to .NET developer for these reasons, and also because he takes full
ownership of his work; including peripheral dependencies, and will self manage
through to completion."

Ross Barbieri, Serial Entrepreneur, CTO and Software Development Manager
(ShiftWise)
https://www.linkedin.com/in/rosshere/


WHAT YOU CAN EXPECT FROM ME

- I have the maturity and experience to design, develop, coordinate, and lead
  a team from product conception to release.
- I can put AI to work on real implementation while supplying what it lacks -
  the judgment, earned over decades, to recognize when a plausible-looking
  design is wrong.
- I have the broad full-stack knowledge and self-starting mentality to
  single-handedly architect, design, implement, document, test and deploy an
  entire application.
- I have worked with some of the best programmers and managers at some of the
  greatest software companies in the world.
- I am a great team player, leader and communicator, fully embracing team
  diversity and cohesiveness.
- I am creative and love solving challenging problems.
- I enjoy mentoring anyone who seeks it.
- I am reliable and honest: I speak truth to clients and colleagues.
- I try to view situations from your point of view to anticipate your needs
  and assist you in building your antifragility.


SKILLS AND TECHNOLOGIES

AI
  LLM Pipeline Architecture, LLM Evaluation, Human-in-the-Loop Design, Prompt
  Engineering, AI-Assisted Development, De-identification, Claude Code for VS
  Code, LLM APIs, AI Coding Assistant, Claude.ai (LLM), GitHub Copilot,
  ChatGPT (LLM)

Blockchain
  Solidity, Ethereum, Web3, dApps, ethers.js, DAOs, DAO Governance Systems,
  DeFi, Wallets, ReFi, IPFS, Subgraph, Liquidity Bootstrapping Pools, web3.js,
  Celo, Arbitrum, Balancer Liquidity Pools, Gnosis Safe, OpenZeppelin
  Defender, Ceramic, 3Box, ENS, Mento, LitProtocol, Metamask, WalletConnect,
  Web3Modal

Website and Application Development
  TypeScript, Web3, dApps, Aurelia 2, Web Components, Wallets, MVVM, SPA,
  Fastify, JavaScript, TailWind CSS, Axios, Node.js, Awilix, TSyringe, Vite,
  HTML, CSS, Custom (HTML) Elements, Shadow DOM, HTML Templates, Data Binding,
  Observables, Pub/Sub Pattern, RxJS, SASS, Responsive UIs, Service-Oriented
  Architecture (SOA), ReactJs, Aurelia, AngularJs, FluentUI Web Components,
  Webpack, Rollup, C#, Markdown, XML, D3.js, Highcharts, ASP.NET Core, MVC,
  WebApi, ASP.NET Identity, Razor, Ajax, jQuery, Bootstrap, RequireJs, C++,
  Java, KnockoutJs, DurandalJs, ASP.NET, Enterprise Scale Web Applications,
  Telerik, Bootstrap Material Design, XSLT, XML Schema Definition (XSD), JSPM,
  SystemJs, WCF, WWF, Microsoft Extensibility Framework (MEF), JDBC, JSP,
  Swing, CORBA, Flash SWF, Xerces

Software Languages
  TypeScript, Solidity, JavaScript, C#, C++, SQL, T-SQL

Markup Languages
  Web Components, HTML, CSS, Custom (HTML) Elements, Shadow DOM, HTML
  Templates, SASS, Markdown, Razor, ASP.NET

Data Stores
  IPFS, Ceramic, 3Box, JDBC, CORBA, Microsoft SQL Server, SQL, T-SQL, Active-X
  Data Objects (ADO), LINQ, nHibernate, DB2, Entity Framework, Entity
  Framework Core, Microsoft Enterprise Library

Module Bundling and Loading
  Vite, Webpack, Rollup, RequireJs, JSPM, SystemJs

Software Development Platforms
  Aurelia 2, Node.js, Aurelia, .NET

Test Frameworks
  Vitest, Jasmine, Jest, Karma, Moq, MSTest, NUnit, Selenium, SpecFlow, Unity
  (Dependency Injection), VSTest, XUnit.NET

Development Tools
  Visual Studio Code, GitHub, GitHub Desktop, GitKraken, NPM, Visual Studio,
  BitBucket, Jira, NuGet, TFS

Website and Application Hosting
  IPFS, Node.js, JRun, IIS

Cryptography
  De-identification, LitProtocol, crypto-js, DES, Encryption, SHA-2, .NET
  System.Security.Cryptography

Scripting
  Node.js, Perl, PowerShell, Windows Batch

Localization/Globalization
  i18Next, jQuery Globalization

Charting & Graphing Frameworks
  D3.js, Highcharts

Semantic Search Frameworks
  SQL Server Semantic Search

Cloud Services
  Microsoft Azure

Operating Systems
  Microsoft Windows

Development Processes
  Agile Methodologies, Just Get It Done, Waterfall, TFS


PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE

Technical Lead & LLM Pipeline Architect - Human Lens, AI-native web app
Independent Software Developer | 05/2026 - Present
https://github.com/dkent600/HumanLens

Description:
Modeled on an existing DEI consultancy, turned an open-ended qualitative
analysis problem into a full-stack web application wrapping a bounded,
testable LLM pipeline: staged contracts between components, empirical
calibration to reduce output variance, and a client-safe boundary enforced
from the pipeline through to the human-review interface.

Highlights:
- Scoped, designed, and built in TypeScript - Aurelia 2 web application over a
  Fastify/Node service - with sole authority over every architectural
  decision; 129 tests green across backend and frontend (at this writing)
- Ran a hybrid human/AI development process: delegated implementation to a
  coding agent, routed design decisions through an independent review model,
  and adjudicated every conflict personally
- Derived functional requirements and the domain model by using an LLM to
  analyze a DEI consultancy's published materials, translating an external
  firm's stated methodology into implementable analytic stages
- Guaranteed processing completeness in orchestration code rather than in
  prompts - every input provably resolves to one of four explicit terminal
  states, so nothing is silently dropped regardless of model behavior
- Designed a seven-lens analytic architecture running in six ordered waves;
  three lenses validated against a real model to date, with calibration driven
  by a purpose-built synthetic evaluation dataset
- Made a non-deterministic system testable: captured real model responses once
  and replayed them, so runs became reproducible and far cheaper
- Designed test data that measured failure in both directions - what the
  pipeline missed and what it invented - rather than only rewarding recall
- Built confidentiality controls with a human in the loop: no finding reaches
  client-facing output without explicit approval, and automated
  de-identification holds for review anything it misses - with the client-safe
  boundary enforced by the package structure, so the human-review interface is
  structurally incapable of holding internal findings

Skills / Technologies:
LLM Pipeline Architecture, LLM Evaluation, TypeScript, Human-in-the-Loop
Design, Prompt Engineering, AI-Assisted Development, De-identification,
Aurelia 2, Claude Code for VS Code, LLM APIs, AI Coding Assistant, Claude.ai
(LLM), GitHub Copilot, ChatGPT (LLM), Fastify, TailWind CSS, Axios, Node.js,
Awilix, Vite, HTML, Visual Studio Code, Vitest, NPM


Technical Lead & dApp Architect - Butterfly, Crypto portfolio management dApp
Independent Software Developer | 06/2025 - 09/2025
https://github.com/dkent600/batch-take-profit

Description:
Designed and built a cryptocurrency portfolio management dApp that executes
scaled take-profit sales across multiple exchanges. Supported by the Butterfly
Crypto portfolio management service.

Highlights:
- Does real-time price monitoring and balance tracking, tracking order history
  and status
- Executes batch take-profit orders across multiple exchanges, with
  percentage-based or fixed-amount strategies
- Internal architecture: MVVM SPA app frontend
- Development process utilizing the AI coding assistant GitHub Copilot Chat in
  VS Code

Skills / Technologies:
TypeScript, Aurelia 2, DeFi, MVVM, AI Coding Assistant, GitHub Copilot,
TailWind CSS, Axios, Vite, FluentUI Web Components, GitHub


Technical Lead & dApp Architect - Butterfly, Crypto portfolio management
service
Independent Software Developer | 06/2025 - 09/2025
https://github.com/dkent600/butterfly-services

Description:
Designed and built a REST API service supporting secure cryptocurrency
exchange operations across multiple exchanges. Supports the Butterfly Crypto
portfolio management dApp.

Highlights:
- Provides comprehensive safety mechanisms, testing, dependency injection and
  production-ready integration
- Layered, service-oriented code architecture
- Development process utilizing the AI coding assistant GitHub Copilot Chat in
  VS Code
- Fastify server providing Swagger/OpenAPI documentation
- Node.js with TypeScript
- TSyringe for clean dependency injection architecture for Node.js
- Axios for exchange-API communications

Skills / Technologies:
TypeScript, DeFi, AI Coding Assistant, GitHub Copilot, Fastify, Axios,
Node.js, TSyringe, Vite, GitHub


Blockchain Oracle Developer
Curve Labs | 04/2023 - 05/2023
https://www.curvelabs.eu/

Description:
Invited back on contract. Developed an automated "Oracle" service maintaining
states of Kolektivo (https://www.kolektivo.network/) regenerative finance
(ReFi) smart contracts on the Celo (https://celo.org/) (EVM compatible)
blockchain.

Highlights:
- Worked on the Celo blockchain (https://celo.org/) with the tokens kG, kCur
  and cUSD and a Balancer WeightedPool (kCur cUSD) ported to Celo by Symmetric
- Leveraged smart contracts MentoReserve and the Balancer WeightedPool to
  maintain the value of the total supply of kCur in the MentoReserve contract
  equal to the value of the total supply of the kG token (by changing the
  total supply of kCur in the MentoReserve)
- Leveraged the Balancer WeightedPool to help maintain kCur price stability
  within an acceptable range in its role of backing up kG
- Leveraged OpenZeppelin Defender
  (https://www.openzeppelin.com/news/doubling-down-on-open-source-and-phasing-out-defender)
  for managing private keys, encrypting secrets, sending transactions, hosting
  and invoking the service
- Reported the prices of cUSD, kCur and kG price to smart contract Oracles

Skills / Technologies:
TypeScript, Solidity, Ethereum, ethers.js, DeFi, ReFi, Celo, Balancer
Liquidity Pools, Defender, Mento, JavaScript, GitHub


Development Team Lead and Lead Developer
Curve Labs | 08/2020 - 11/2022
https://www.curvelabs.eu/

Description:
Led teams of 2-5 in the development of the frontends of multiple dApps running
against the Ethereum blockchain focused on decentralized (DeFi) and
regenerative finance (ReFi). Among others, led the development team for a ReFi
dApp designed to emerge a regenerative, decentralized economic system for the
sovereign island nation of Curacao. Here are couple of sites: Prime Deals and
Prime Launch.

Highlights:
- Lead and sole coder of the dApp frontends of Prime Pools (no longer active)
  (https://github.com/PrimeDAO/prime-pool-dapp), Prime Locking For Reputation
  (https://primelock.eth.link/) and the original PrimeDAO Home Page (no longer
  active) (https://primedao.eth.link)
- Coordinated a team of two and did the majority of coding of the dApp
  frontend of Prime Launch (https://launch.prime.xyz/)
- Coordinated a team of five and did much of the coding of the dApp frontend
  of Prime Deals (https://deals.prime.xyz/)
- Coordinated a team of two and participated in the coding of the dApp
  frontend of Kolektivo (not currently active)
  (https://github.com/Kolektivo/kolektivo-dapp)
- With the exception of the PrimeDAO Home Page, which uses React.js, the dApps
  were all implemented using the Aurelia (https://aurelia.io/) framework
- Leveraged many Ethereum smart contracts developed by CurveLabs, reviewing
  solidity for code quality, bugs and security, proposing accepted
  improvements and bug fixes
- Leveraged Balancer Liquidity Pools (https://balancer.fi/), smart contracts
  that implement decentralized automated market makers
- Leveraged GnosisSafe API, for governance purposes
- Leveraged CoinGecko for token prices
- Interviewed applicants for developer and project lead positions
- As products, these applications are innovative and impressive. Read more
  about them at Kolektivo (https://www.kolektivo.network/) and The Prime Suite
  (https://www.prime.xyz)

Skills / Technologies:
TypeScript, Solidity, Ethereum, Web3, dApps, ethers.js, DAOs, DAO Governance
Systems, DeFi, Wallets, ReFi, SPA, IPFS, Subgraph, Liquidity Bootstrapping
Pools, web3.js, Balancer Liquidity Pools, Gnosis Safe, Defender, Ceramic, ENS,
LitProtocol, Metamask, WalletConnect, Web3Modal, JavaScript, Node.js, Vite,
HTML, CSS, SASS, Responsive, ReactJs, Aurelia, Webpack, Rollup, i18Next,
GitHub


Senior Lead Developer
DAOstack | 09/2017 - 10/2020
https://www.daostack.io/

Description:
Performed multiple development roles in the design, creation and use of
DAOstack DAOs, one of the first major DAO designs in the history of DAOs.
Used, reviewed and deployed Solidity smart contracts, wrote a TypeScript
library to support dApps in accessing the smart contracts, wrote a test dApp,
significantly contributed to the dApp Alchemy used for working with the DAOs.

Highlights:
- One of the primary later developers of Alchemy (https://v1.alchemy.do/), the
  DAOstack website enabling anyone to participate in DAOstack DAOs
- One and a half years coding with React.js in Alchemy
- Leveraged DAOstack Arc (https://github.com/daostack/arc) Solidity smart
  contracts, reviewing Solidity for code quality, bugs and security, proposing
  accepted improvements and bug fixes
- Responsible for deploying DAOstack Arc (https://github.com/daostack/arc)
  smart contracts to Ethereum
- Implemented and helped to design the dxDAO Vote Staking Interface
  (https://github.com/daostack/dutchx-bootstrapper-ui), a website for
  initializing reputation in the dxDAO, a new decentralized autonomous
  organization (DAO) that governs the DutchX, a permissionless trading
  protocol for ERC20 tokens on the Ethereum blockchain. (The UI will disappear
  on 2019-06-28 when the dxDAO initialization period ends, but you can see
  walkthroughs here (https://twitter.com/_dx_dao/status/1138824722211311616)
  and here
  (https://blog.gnosis.pm/step-by-step-guide-to-earn-reputation-for-the-dxdao-with-the-gnosis-safe-cc54f3a93f3e).)
- Designed and implemented a well-reviewed architecture for the original
  version of DAOstack Arc.js (https://github.com/daostack/arc.js_legacy)
- Implemented Vanille (https://github.com/daostack/vanille), open-source
  software that leverage DAOStack Arc (https://github.com/daostack/arc) to
  facilitate the creation of DAOstack DAOs

Skills / Technologies:
TypeScript, Solidity, Ethereum, Web3, dApps, DAOs, DAO Governance Systems,
Wallets, SPA, Subgraph, 3Box, JavaScript, Node.js, HTML, CSS, SASS,
Responsive, ReactJs, Aurelia, Webpack, jQuery, Bootstrap, Bootstrap Material
Design, GitHub


Senior Web Developer
Dicom Transportation Group | 02/2017 - 04/2017
https://www.dicom.com/

Description:
Fixed bugs and developed new features for an internal web application used to
coordinate trucks, drivers, routes and delivery locations across Quebec

Highlights:
- Fixed more bugs and added more features than the client planned-for

Skills / Technologies:
HTML, CSS, C#, MVC, Razor, jQuery, ASP.NET, Telerik, SQL Server, T-SQL,
BitBucket, Jira


Sole Web Developer
Vivalia Bistro Express | 06/2016 - 10/2016
https://vivalia.ca/

Description:
Developed a website that gives Vivalia and its customers a highly efficient
and enjoyable way to place and handle orders

Highlights:
- Designed and created the entire website and database myself
- Highly performant, pleasing and intuitive user interface
- Used all best-available web application technologies
- Well-structured, modular code amenable to future maintenance and enhancement

Skills / Technologies:
TypeScript, SPA, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Responsive, Aurelia, C#, ASP.NET Core,
WebApi, ASP.NET Identity, Ajax, jQuery, Bootstrap, Microsoft SQL Server,
T-SQL, Unity, Entity Framework Core, Azure, TFS


Senior Lead Web Developer
GE Healthcare | 03/2015 - 02/2016
https://www.gehealthcare.com/

Description:
Developed automated machine communication enabling two companies to vastly
increase the efficiency of their relationship

Highlights:
- Designed the whole thing, end-to-end
- The only part I didn't write entirely myself was the AngularJs web
  application
- Created a dynamic, data-driven schema for the exchanged content
- Integrated lots of moving parts: an AngularJs web application, two external
  web services, .NET web server, Azure web job, and SQL Server database
- Hosted on Azure

Skills / Technologies:
TypeScript, SPA, AngularJs, C#, WebApi, ASP.NET, SQL Server, T-SQL, Unity,
Entity Framework, Azure, TFS


Sole Senior Lead Web Developer
PSP Investments | 05/2014 - 12/2015
https://investpsp.ca/

Description:
As a member of the PSP business intelligence (BI) analytics group,
single-handedly developed successful web applications for other departments
within PSP

Highlights:
- Many commented that these websites were the most performant and usable ever
  internally developed at PSP
- One web application enabled users to search unstructured documents using a
  google-like interface and semantic search technologies
- Another website reported data in charts, graphs and tables to assist PSP's
  executive portfolio rebalancing committee
- Conducted research on knowledge base and graph and RDF database technologies
  and products, including AllegroGraph, Semaphore and Neo4j, to plot
  directions for expanding PSP's knowledge-based search capabilities

Skills / Technologies:
SPA, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, C#, D3, Highcharts, WebApi, Ajax, jQuery,
Bootstrap, RequireJs, KnockoutJs, DurandalJs, Agile, Unity, .NET, Entity
Framework, TFS


Sole Web Designer and Developer - Kill My TV!
Independent Software Developer | 12/2013 - 03/2014

Description:
Designed and implemented a web application to intelligently exchange resources
relevant to the implications of watching too much television

Highlights:
- Presented in French and English with instantaneous transition when switching
  between the two -- no postback
- Takes users through a series of questions and customizes a set of resources
  according to their answers
- Users can suggest and submit their own resources
- Includes an extensive set of administration pages for creating the
  questions, answers and correlating them with resources

Skills / Technologies:
SPA, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, C#, MVC, WebAPI, Ajax, jQuery, bootstrap,
RequireJs, KnockoutJs, Durandal, ASP.NET, i18Next, jQuery globalization, SQL
Server, T-SQL, entity framework


Sole Web Designer and Developer - Password Repository
Independent Software Developer | 08/2013 - 09/2017

Description:
Designed and implemented a personal website using encryption techniques
enabling me to access all of my logins/passwords from anywhere without
requiring SSL. Received intermittent attention.

Highlights:
- Extensive use of hashing and encryption (both server and client-side),
  custom server-side authentication and other techniques to achieve data
  privacy with no SSL
- Been through a couple iterations as technologies have changed. Was
  Durandal+KnockoutJs+MsTest+ASP.NET, is now Aurelia+XUnit+ASP.NET Core.

Skills / Technologies:
SPA, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Aurelia, Webpack, C#, ASP.NET Core, MVC, WebAPI,
Identity, Ajax, jQuery, Bootstrap, RequireJs, KnockoutJs, SQL Server, T-SQL,
MsTest, XUnit.NET, crypto-js, DES, Encryption, SHA,
System.Security.Cryptography, entity framework


Senior Web Developer
Revionics | 11/2011 - 03/2013
https://www.revionics.com/

Description:
Lead an offshore development team and participated in an Agile Scrum
environment in the architecture and development of portions of a complex
enterprise-scale, customer-facing web application

Highlights:
- In daily scrums, coordinated and helped train a team of seven developers
  located in India. Training was primarily on Agile, development processes,
  and in the standards of code development quality upheld at Revionics
- Led a team three developers in India in the architecture and development of
  a web GUI for managing security rights in the Revionics web application.
  Responsible for the entire architecture, quality of the result, coordination
  of the entire team, and timely delivery. Did half the coding myself
- Saved the security rights project, in jeopardy of missing its deadline, by
  dropping the size of the assisting team from 7 to 3 (sad but necessary)
- Helped port a complex web GUI from ASP.NET to MVC.NET 3.0. Designed the
  server-side architecture for the team. Wrote most of the server-side code
  and assisted with client-side
- Developed an unobtrusive framework for logging web application activity
  using dependency injection and API interception using Unity and a plugin
  architecture using the Managed Extensibility Framework (MEF)
- Designed, developed and prototyped a reusable/extensible framework for
  writing SpecFlow integration tests using Unity, Moq and VSTest. The
  prototype was written against Selenium to drive automated GUI tests

Skills / Technologies:
JavaScript, HTML, CSS, C#, MVC, jQuery, KnockoutJs, ASP.NET, Telerik, MEF,
ADO, nHibernate, Agile, Moq, Selenium, SpecFlow, Unity, VSTest, Enterprise
Framework, TFS


Senior Lead Web Developer, Manager Partner Integrations
ShiftWise | 08/2003 - 07/2011
https://www.shiftwise.com/

Description:
Performed a lead role in an Agile Scrum environment in coding a complex
enterprise-scale, customer-facing web application and associated automated web
service interface.

Highlights:
- Meeting an urgent deadline, virtually single-handedly implemented a system
  for handling mission-critical incoming and outgoing (SMS) messages to and
  from cell phones. The architecture spanned a web site, three web services,
  two windows services, and two SQL Server databases
- Was the Lead Developer on the ShiftWise Vendor Management System (VMS), a
  large and complex web application used by hospital administrators and
  medical staffing agencies to improve the process of hiring and placing
  temporary medical staff in hospitals
- Was Manager and Lead Developer of ShiftWise Partner Integrations (PI), a set
  of web services and Windows applications enabling automated integrations
  between the ShiftWise VMS application and ShiftWise' customers' backoffice
  systems
- Was the Senior Developer of ShiftWise TextConnect, enabling nurses to
  interact with the ShiftWise VMS using cell phone text messaging (SMS)
- As Interim Development Team Manager and the most experienced .NET developer
  on the team, coordinated and set priorities for the team; helped raise the
  skills of the developers and improve the quality of output of the software
  engineering process
- Worked smoothly with ShiftWise clients to plan and coordinate their side of
  the development of automated interfaces

Skills / Technologies:
JavaScript, HTML, CSS, C#, xml, MVC, jQuery, ASP.NET, XSLT, XSD, WCF, WWF, SQL
Server, T-SQL, LINQ, Agile, Moq, MSTest, NUnit, Entity Framework, Enterprise
Framework, TFS


Web Application Developer
Texas Turnpike Authority | 05/2003 - 06/2003
https://www.dot.state.tx.us/default.htm

Description:
Using ASP.NET, implemented main 'dashboard' web page and site-wide security
code

Highlights:
- Created web-based workflow involving inspections and tests of Texas turnpike
  construction
- Implemented site-wide forms-based roles authorization and page
  customization, as well as user/groups management pages

Skills / Technologies:
JavaScript, HTML, C#, ASP.NET, T-SQL


Application Developer
Schlumberger/Cingular Wireless | 10/2002 - 01/2003
https://www.schlumberger.com/

Description:
Enhanced a Java Swing application that enables users to display and edit data
contained on Smart Cards

Highlights:
- Enhanced a Java Swing application that enables users to display and edit
  data contained on Smart Cards
- Designed and implemented a user-friendly panel system. By integrating it
  snugly and efficiently into the existing code, provided enhanced
  functionality to both new code and existing code
- Implemented application configuration files formatted as XML, accessed using
  Xerces

Skills / Technologies:
XML, Java, Swing, Xerces


Software Engineer (Ford.com)
Trilogy | 09/2000 - 03/2001
https://www.trilogy.com/

Description:
Wrote major components of Ford Motor Company's flagship Ford.com website

Highlights:
- The Ford.com code was virtually flawless on first release
- Wrote JSP and Java components, a Java/Swing applet that enabled
  administrators to edit the XML content using a browser, and a Flash binary
  SWF file preprocessor
- Wrote thorough and professionally-styled User and Developer Guide
  documentation

Skills / Technologies:
JavaScript, HTML, XML, Java, JSP, Swing, Flash SWF, Xerces, JRun


Software Engineer (carOrder.com)
Trilogy | 01/2000 - 08/2000
https://www.trilogy.com/

Description:
Enhanced and maintained the lease and loan sales features and Needs Analysis
and Car Comparison features of carOrder.com's website

Highlights:
- Took the initiative to write a 'Developer's Reference' web page for carOrder
  developers. This document vastly reduced the time required to bring new
  developers up to speed, as well as served as an ongoing reference for all
  developers on the team
- Repaired broken Needs Analysis and Car Comparison features, fixed both the
  front end web GUI and the back-end scripts that generate the supporting
  data. Reduced to zero the flood of customer complaints about bad data and
  broken features
- Designed and wrote an application to assist in browsing Jato automobile data
- Ported DES-encryption-based software licensing code (see Imagen) from C++ to
  Java

Skills / Technologies:
JavaScript, HTML, C++, Java, WCF, JDBC, JSP, CORBA, Xerces, SQL Server, T-SQL,
DES, Encryption


Software Engineer (IBM)
Trilogy | 03/1999 - 12/1999
https://www.trilogy.com/

Description:
Provided sole development and support for an application critical to an
international IBM workflow

Highlights:
- Right off the bat solved a critical issue that had been vexing prior
  developers. IBM was very happy
- Took the initiative to save this part of the IBM contract for Trilogy

Skills / Technologies:
JavaScript, HTML, XML, Java, XSL, JDBC, JSP, Swing, SQL, T-SQL, Perl, DB2


Lead Software Engineer
Biomonitors, Ltd | 02/1997 - 03/1997

Description:
Ported from DOS to Windows 95 MindMirror, an application that displays
real-time electroencephalograph data in a GUI application


Sole Software Engineer
Imagen Communications, Inc. | 10/1996 - 03/1998

Description:
Designed and developed NT Paymaster, a billing application for ISPs


Software Engineer
Microsoft Corporation | 03/1996 - 06/1996
https://www.microsoft.com/

Description:
Wrote subsystem to facilitate localization of Encarta `97 into 5 languages


Development Manager, Software Engineer
Microsoft Corporation | 06/1995 - 02/1996
https://www.microsoft.com/

Description:
Managed team of 7 in code development and release to market of the Reader's
Digest Complete Do-It-Yourself Guide multimedia CD-ROM title


Founder & Developer - Mouthing Flowers
Independent Software Developer | 02/1995 - 09/1999

Description:
For the NEXTSTEP platform, designed and wrote TimeFlies, designed and
implemented a 3D graphics API, and wrote the SwoopnPrint "service"
application.

Highlights:
- TimeFlies received a positive product review from NeXTWorld magazine


Software Engineer, Tech Lead
Microsoft Corporation | 11/1994 - 06/1995
https://www.microsoft.com/

Description:
Wrote the core GUI engine for Julia Child's Home Cooking With Master Chefs
multimedia CD-ROM title


Software Engineer
Asymetrix Corporation | 04/1992 - 10/1994
https://home.click2learn.com/showcase

Description:
Developed software for Toolbook 3.0 and multimedia screensavers (Jurassic
Park, et. al.)


Software Engineer
Microsoft Corporation | 01/1991 - 03/1992
https://www.microsoft.com

Description:
On the Windows 3.1 team, developed software for File Manager, Packager,
Paintbrush , Cardfile, and others


VP Applications Development
ConnectSoft | 10/1989 - 12/1990

Description:
Managed all development efforts (see ConnectSoft, below)


Software Engineer
ConnectSoft | 12/1988 - 10/1989

Description:
Developed software for Clip-Art Window Shopper, an early electronic clip-art
distribution application, and Presto 3D, a 3D CAD application


Software Engineer
University of North Carolina | 11/1988 - 12/1989
https://www.unc.edu/

Description:
For EGA/VGA graphics hardware, developed code that reproduces PGA 3D and 2D
graphics hardware commands


Software Engineer
Dupont Design Technologies, Inc. | 03/1988 - 11/1988

Description:
Developed object-oriented, resolution-independent 2D graphics code, including
airbrushes, framebuffer manager, and graphics hardware emulator


Sole Software Engineer
SAS Institute Inc. | 12/1986 - 05/1987
https://www.sas.com/

Description:
Ported Visuals (see UNC below) to the SAS Graphical User Interface System


Software Engineer
University of North Carolina | 05/1986 - 11/1986
https://www.unc.edu/

Description:
Assembled a local area network (LAN) and a system to digitize and manipulate
video microscopic images for display in medical school classroom lab sessions


Sole Software Engineer
University of North Carolina | 05/1985 - 11/1986
https://www.unc.edu/

Description:
Wrote Visuals, an application that uses interactive 3D graphics animation to
reveal meaning in multidimensional statistical data


Associate Public Policy Analyst
Pacific Environmental Services, Inc | 01/1980 - 09/1982

Description:
Conducted regulatory technical analyses, managed preparation of technical
business proposals, managed a waste brokerage program


LOCATION, LANGUAGES & CITIZENSHIP

Lived and worked for decades in both the U.S. and Canada, now based in Costa
Rica. I have worked with distributed teams across Europe, Israel, India, and
Australia, including leading offshore development teams in daily coordination.

Languages: English (native proficiency), French (professional working
proficiency)

Citizenship: United States, Canada, United Kingdom


EDUCATION

Duke University
Masters, Environment Management | 1977-1980

University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill
Continuing Education, Computer Science | 1985-1987

Duke University
Master of Arts, Public Policy Sciences | 1977-1980

Miami University
Bachelor of Science, Botany | 1973-1977


PUBLICATIONS

Dynamic Graphics for Exploring Multivariate Data. Chapter 8, Dynamic Graphics
for Statistics
Young, Forest W., D.P. Kent, W.F. Kuhfeld
Cleveland, W.S. and McGill, M. eds., Wadsworth

Visual Exploratory Data Analysis and the VISUALS System for Dynamic
Hyper-Dimensional Graphics
Young, Forrest W., D.P. Kent, W.F. Kuhfeld
Paper presented at 1986 annual meeting of the Psychometric Society, Toronto,
Ontario

VISUALS: Dynamic HyperDimensional Graphics Software for Visual Exploratory
Data Analysis
Young, Forrest W., D.P. Kent, W.F. Kuhfeld
Paper presented at the National Computer Graphics Association annual trade
show, Anaheim, California

PROC VISUALS: Experimental Software for Animated 3-D Graphics Using the IBM
Professional Graphics Device
Kent, Douglas P., T.C. Edds, W.F. Kuhfeld, and F.W. Young
Proceedings of the Eleventh Annual SAS Users Group International Conference,
Atlanta, Georgia

Visual Exploratory Data Analysis: PROC VISUALS, A User-Written Experimental
SAS Procedure
Young, Forrest W., D.P. Kent, T.C. Edds, W.F. Kuhfeld
Proceedings of the Eleventh Annual SAS Users Group International Conference,
Atlanta, Georgia

Visual Exploratory Data Analysis: A Preliminary Report in Classification As A
Tool Of Research, Gaul, W. and Schader, M. editors
Young, Forrest W., T. Edds, D.P. Kent, W.F. Kuhfeld
Elsevier Science Publishers B.V. (North Holland)

Assessment for Future Environmental Problems - Agricultural Residues. Chapter
5.0 and part of chapter 3.0
McAdams, M.T., K.R. Meardon, D.P. Kent
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency

Rubber Tire Manufacturing Industry - Background Information for Proposed
Standards: Draft EIS. EPA-450-3-81-008a. Chapters 1, 3, 4 and 7
McAdams, M.T., D.P. Kent
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, OANR:OAQPS

U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, OANR: AOQPS. Benzene Fugitive Emissions
- Background Information for Promulgated Standards: EIS. EPA-450/3-80-032b.
Chapters 2.1, 2.2, 2.5, 2.7, 2.8.6, Appendix C
Douglas Kent
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency

Benzene Fugitive Emissions - Background Information for Proposed Standards:
Draft EIS. EPA-450-3-80-032a. Appendix C
McAdams, M.T., D.P. Kent
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, OANR:OAQPS

Higher Education in the 1980's: Declining Enrollments, New Markets, and the
Management of Decline. Part II, Section III, Uncertainty in College Enrollment
Projections. For the U.S. Senate Committee on Labor and Human Resources
Findley, S., Gundlach, J., Kent, D.P., and Rhoda, R.
The Center for Educational Policy, Duke University Institute for Policy
Sciences and Public Affairs

Rural-Urban Migration and Fertility: What Do We Know: Report to the U.S.
Agency for International Development. Annotated Bibliography
Douglas Kent
Research Triangle Institute Contract #AID/ta-CA-1

Air Quality Plan for Mobile Sources. Appendix II-12, Baseline Data on
Attainment Status Designations for Areawide Air Pollutants
Toledo Metropolitan Area Council of Governments
